If you don't mind, fill in the names.
That'll make it more official.
You think of everything, don't you?
And the names are
Mr. and Mrs. Victor Laszlo.
- But why my name, Richard?
- Because you're getting on that plane.
I don't understand.
What about you?
I'm staying with him
till the plane gets away.
No. What has happened?
Last night you said...
Last night we said a great many things.
You said I was to do the thinking for us.
I've done a lot of it since then.
It adds up to one thing:
You're getting on that plane
with Victor where you belong.
Now, you've got to listen to me.
Any idea what you'd have
to look forward to if you stayed here?
Chances are we'd both wind up
in a concentration camp. True, Louis?
I'm afraid Major Strasser would insist.
- You're saying this only to make me go.
- I'm saying it because it's true.
Inside of us we both know
you belong with Victor.
You're part of his work,
the thing that keeps him going.
If that plane leaves
and you're not with him, you'll regret it.
Maybe not today, maybe not tomorrow,
but soon, and for the rest of your life.
But what about us?
We'll always have Paris.
We didn't have... We'd lost it
until you came to Casablanca.
We got it back last night.
- When I said I would never leave you.
- And you never will.
But I've got a job to do too.
Where I'm going, you can't follow.
What I've got to do
you can't be any part of.
Ilsa, I'm no good at being noble.
But it doesn't take much to see
that the problems of three little people...
...don't amount to a hill of beans
in this crazy world.
Someday you'll understand that.
Now, now.
Here's looking at you, kid.
- Everything is in order.
- All except one thing.
There's something you should know.
I don't ask you to explain anything.
I'm going to anyway.
It may make a difference to you later on.
You said you knew about Ilsa and me.
You didn't know she was at my place
last night when you were.
She came there for the letters of transit.
Isn't that true, Ilsa?
Yes.
She tried everything to get them.
Nothing worked.
She did her best to convince me
that she was still in love with me.
But that was all over long ago.
For your sake, she pretended it wasn't,
and I let her pretend.
I understand.
- Here it is.
- Thanks.
I appreciate it.
Welcome back to the fight.
This time I know our side will win.
Are you ready, Ilsa?
Yes, I'm ready.
Goodbye, Rick.
God bless you.
You better hurry.
You'll miss that plane.
I was right.
You are a sentimentalist.
Stay where you are.
I don't know what you're talking about.
What you just did for Laszlo.
That fairy tale you invented
to send Ilsa away with him.
I know a little about women, my friend.
She went.
But she knew you were lying.
Anyway, thanks for helping me out.
I suppose you know this isn't
going to be pleasant for either of us.
Especially for you.
- I'll have to arrest you, of course.
- As soon as the plane goes, Louis.
What was the meaning
of that phone call?
Victor Laszlo is on that plane.
Why do you stand here?
Why don't you stop him?
Ask Monsieur Rick.
- Get away from that phone.
- I advise you not to interfere.
I was willing to shoot Captain Renault,
and I'm willing to shoot you.
- Hello!
- Put that phone down.
- Get me the radio tower.
- Put it down!
Major Strasser has been shot.
Round up the usual suspects.
Well, Rick,
you're not only a sentimentalist...
...but you've become a patriot.
Maybe, but it seemed
like a good time to start.
I think perhaps you're right.
It might be a good idea for you to
disappear from Casablanca for a while.
There's a Free French garrison
over at Brazzaville.
- I could be induced to arrange a passage.
- My letter of transit?
I could use a trip.
But it doesn't change our bet.
You still owe me 10,000 francs.
That 10,000 francs
should pay our expenses.
"Our" expenses?
Louis, I think this is the beginning
of a beautiful friendship.